---
title: "erotic_ending"
---

# Erotic Ending

Ending is a word which has an -ing towards the end of it. Ending is a
process. A process of becoming an end. Of ceasing to be---a continuous
process of becoming an end. When I look at the midriff of the girl
sitting at the desk, a midriff that peaks out of the gap between her
blouse which is just short enough that a opening had come into existence
and the jeans which I realise upon seeing its waistband is an elastic,
less-than-jeans pair of jeans, when I look at that short expanse of
skin, I feel something stirring inside me. Something that responds to
skin, to exposed flesh, and to beauty. When I look at the the breasts of
the petit girl whose one arm is crossed over the other, and thus which
lifts her bust just a little, like a lotus bud lifted up by waves, when
I look at the feet of the married woman with pink nail paint and encased
in a sandal with golden strap, and when I look at the girl lifting her
underwear just a little because it had slipped down while she
walked...all of this reminds me of death. Death, which is the sense of
an ending. A continuous process of ceasing to be. A continuous process
where the skin will flake off because there is no more blood coursing
underneath it, providing it with air and water and other elements. Where
the breast will atrophy if she is buried, will turn into liquid fat and
burn away if she is cremated, and will expand with gases if she drowns
and stays in water for too long. Death and beauty are two sides of a
coin. Two facets of a diamond which sparkles, only to be lost when the
woman forgets her earring on the rock at the beach where she sat
watching the horizon. The distinguishing feature of human beings from
other animals is self-consciousness. When the body ceases moving,
consciousness is also extinguished like a candle which had been lighting
a tiny alcove for an hour too many. This sort of ending is graceful, but
also ghastly. At once calming and terrifying. The memories of flesh, of
pushing the head of your penis inside a welcoming, slippery, warm body,
of erect nipples quivering between your fingers...all of this will cease
to be. There will be no more sweating under the merciless sun, no more
goosebumps in the rain, no more painful good-byes.
