---
title: "escalation"
---

# escalation

I was reading The Brothers Karamazov when the rain resumed. Under the
streetlight, I could see the rain cross-hatching as it dripped from the
trees and swayed in the wind. The rain sprayed across the narrow
courtyard of the cafe and left a smattering of fine drops on the phone
and the bag; I shut the book and moved to a corner far from the
colonnade. I read for another half an hour. The rain had reduced to a
drizzle and the cars were out; I decided to cycle back to my room and
get dinner once I had dried myself up.

It was still drizzling when I climbed up towards the building. I decided
I'd get some paneer parathas to go and eat them in my room rather than
walk back to the canteen after I had changed clothes. The canteen wasn't
crowded. One of the busboys was wiping the muddy water away from the
floor. I got myself two paneer parathas and a boiled egg bhurji and
waited for them to pack it. People were coming out of their rooms and a
few were headed to the canteen. The place grew crowded and I was
drenched and the bag was heavy. I waited and waited and watched people
and checked the news on my phone. The shopkeeper said hi. A group of
northies came in and ordered a bunch of stuff. A guy with a full beard
and no personality was furious his order was taking too much time to
come through. I told myself that good things come to those who wait and
god's mill turns slowly but surely. A few people who had ordered food
left. It started raining again. People who came in after me were
leaving. I saw a square of aluminum foil spread out for the parathas and
that got my hope high---here was my food I would eat in the warmth of my
room. The square was there and there were no parathas being laid on it.
After two more people left, I concluded that maybe my invisibility is
quite a real thing and got out of the place and went to my room.

I reached my room dripping wet, got the bag off my shoulders and found
the rain cover hadn't helped a bit. The laptop and headphones were still
dry. I removed my wet trousers, wet t-shirt, and the wet boxers. Dried
myself. Changed into new clothes. I checked Zomato and most of the
restaurants were closed for home delivery and the ones who didn't would
take an hour to reach. Anwar had gone home a few hours ago, in the
morning. He would not return for a month. The few people I could talk to
were not here. I left for the other tiny canteen near the hostel.

In the canteen, no one. The awning was broken and water pooled around
the chairs. There was a tall and corpulent guy who looked no less than
thirty-five talking to the workers. Ordering things to be brought up to
his room. Mocking them. A huge chain of rudraksham on his neck and a
steel kangan and a red and black thread on his wrist. Everything
screamed 'Brahmin!' Everything screamed 'Cow Belt!' Everything screamed
'Look at me!' The very opposite of my invisibility. Mocking my
invisibility. Mocking the thin, lanky guy with thick-rimmed spectacles.
Mocking the worker who tried to man up and yet be submissive. The worker
who wanted to prove that he too could order around a less manly man. The
manly man was visible in the rain, ordering people around, announcing
his presence through his voice, furious and capable of violence.

Manly men, dark nights pierced by the cold glow of streetlights, drains
overflowing from the pounding of rain, flowers and leaves forming deltas
of decaying life, the damp cuff of the trousers around your ankles---all
of these reminds me of the time I took more tablets than I should. The
onslaught of humanity against your supple ideas of the connectedness of
things. The poison of compassion showing you its other side---the
relative ease of offing yourself. Years ago I had fought against this. I
had fought with my voice and my writing and my actions; all of it now
relegated to the hazy realm of memory.

Two delayed parathas, a little more sound than necessary, a little less
compassion than necessary, damp clothes; these are enough to break me.
