---
title: "essential_tremor"
---

# Essential Tremor

If I can sum up my sedentary life through a part of my body, it is the
hands. The muffintops and fatty thighs are better places to spot my
inactivity, but it is in my shaky hands poised on the edge of the
keyboard that the heavy strands of my life converge. I used to think
that this was a benign condition---that this would go away with some
strengthening, which it did for sometime, that some yoga could fix this,
as it did. But during this time I also started taking antidepressants,
antipsychotics...the whole lot. And a common side effect was tremors; of
the hands, involuntary twitching, sudden jerks of the leg. The tremors
varied as my medications were changed and I chalked up the tremors to
the medicines.

I don't think I am wrong. But I think there is more to it.

In the build up towards a session of caning, in school, my extremities
would start trembling in anticipation of the sharp bite of the cane. The
first time I touched a girl's breasts, I fumbled and struggled to hold
them in my palms. And I remember a mathematics test in grade eleven,
sitting at the first desk close to the wall, trying to calm down my
shivering hands because I was sure I would flunk the test. It appears
that tremors are closer to my self than medicine would allow me to
believe.

As I grew older, I found my hands shivering, trembling, struggling as
they tremored their way through various situations. I learned that they
are the first clues to an impending anxiety attack. I observed my
fingers as they hovered above the keyboard, shaking ever so slightly and
ready to hit the spot between the keys as my brain tried to re-establish
connections. I realised that they do the same when there is not enough
food in my stomach. They do it when I am in public and has to face
people. They do it when the familiar sting of sadness hits my throat and
I am reminded of empty words, empty rooms, and empty gestures of
charity. It is impossible for the fingers to settle in space, steadily
following my gaze, when I gesticulate as I think.

The bottom line: Essential tremors are essential not only in a medical
conception of the body; they are the essence of a troubled, unstable
life. If you cure the tremor, you cure the illness.
