---
title: "gated_homes"
---

# Gated Homes

It was during the relaxed lock-down period that we all caught COVID.
Everyone in the family, except for my sister-in-law. She was somehow
immune to COVID. I think the day after we discovered that most of us
were tested positive for COVID, me and my father went out of the house
into the courtyard and were pacing rounds in the courtyard, as usual,
because we were feeling shut out of the world. We discovered that the
gate was locked from outside. Somebody had latched the gate shut. My
memory is just a wisp, so I imagine we were pacing the courtyard when we
found the gate latched from outside. But this fact remains clear:
somebody had latched the gate shut from outside.

At that moment I discovered how fragile our idea of community was. All
you had to be was to be ostracised from the rest of the world---in this
case, because COVID---and immediately you became something the community
did not want among themselves. As a fundamentally polite citizen, my
father would never have thought of roaming around the place and
spreading COVID in the community. But after all the things he meant to
the community, someone had shut the gates on us, effectively
circumscribing our existence in the community to the walls of our house.

This was deeply disturbing. How could you trust the community again? All
you could imagine as the feeling of community was shut down at that
point. My father was nonchalant, like always. It appeared to me that he
did not find it a fundamental closure of our being-in-community. But to
me, it changed a lot of things. It was as if our family's connection to
the community, just like how every family in the community is connected
to the community itself, was broken off because we had become an object
of fear, of a lack of trust.

This was a lesson no sociology could teach me. It rendered clear to me
the unpredictable nature of community. One moment you are part of it,
and the next, it shuts its doors on you. It just happened that it was
literal in this case.
