---
title: "god-creation-sex_and_beauty_and_history_according_to_rilke_and_me"
---

# God-Creation-Sex and Beauty and History according to Rilke and Me

Rilke is talking about sex and art as parallels, the first great sex as
God (because God is the creator no? First sex is also the creation), and
procreation (sexually) and creation (spiritually) as parallels.

God is the first sex act. God is the great creator. God is illumination,
birth, and thus, death too. God is also orgasm, extreme pain, the
greatest solitary ever possible. According to Gita, God is also time
(which makes logical sense because time destructs everything). God is
the extreme of all experiences. The loneliest of every possible act
possible, because there is nothing else like that. So, God is not
Everything (capital E) because God is the tip of Everything---he is also
part of Everything. God is part of Everything (the whole encompassing
envelope, the infinite pyramid which keeps growing because it is
Everything), including everyotherthings.

God can also manifest, because it makes everything, as part of anything.
Which is why the dog is also fully part God. Which is to say, everything
that makes up the dog is what comes out of God.

Dog = a thing which carries a lot of part Gods = God itself.

Hence, the dog is God itself.

Monistic Pantheism/Pantheistic Monism is not illogical. It is just a
logically valid fantasyland. Just a relaxed, consious day dream of
intense clarity which was written down.

Creation happens at the crossing point between History and Beauty, if we
were to follow Rilke's logic. (He calls History 'inherited memories' and
Beauty as 'Beauty' itself, a 'durable form of love and longing.')

So creation is basically a beautiful reawakening of history. This also
proves eternal recurrence, because creation happens out of the crossing
of Beauty and History. So, what we all are living through is beautiful
reaffirmation of history. We are stuck in a beautiful loop of time.

Ah here, we (Rilke and I) are beginning to talk like a artist-scientist.
