---
title: "like-this_reading_clarice_lispector"
---

# Like-this; Reading Clarice Lispector

In a post-clarice-lispector haze, i walk past a traffic cop drinking
tea, a homeless girl with a child and a plastic tub with a few coins in
front of her, a shop which exhales smoke, and a row of north-eastern
food vendors. all of this is pure sight to me; i have covered my ears
with the noise-cancelling headphones which are pumping Malayalam film
music. Right now I am listening to 'pramadavanam veendum' on repeat. I
am trying to catch the vibratoes Yesudas imparts to the word 'polé'
(po-ley; lit. like-that, as in, the sun is \*like\* Romeo). He sings it
at least two ways, and possibly three. My thoughts are filled with
Lispector's attempts to catch the reality beyond abstractions, and with
the vibrations of the 'polé' they mix with each other and give rise to a
new thought: there is a connection between how one sings the word 'polé'
and the many ways of representation. 'Like-this' is always about 'this'
and not really what the object of comparison is. So, when Yesudas brings
'pole' to a vibrato-filled life, it is this contradiction, or paradox,
which comes to mind, despite how often people use 'like' when they are
stuck in thought. I think it was Terry Eagleton who wrote about people
using 'like' as a filler. The problem, however, is that I have
absolutely no idea what this connection is, except that in 'like-this'
and the multiple ways in which 'polé' can be sung, there is a lack of
precision. You can have x like y, which is neither really x nor y, just
like you can sing the word 'polé' in infinity many ways, none of them
alike each other.

I think what Lispector was trying to do was to capture the 'like-this'
of the moment of living, the present. She knew that words were just
bait; she knew that what mattered was what we could fish out with words.
Her work, then, is in the realm of the 'like-this' which cannot be
captured except as a likeness, a 'polé.' A place where we have just
words, and a job that had to be done using words. Everything else,
especially the absolute reality of the present, is always beyond words.
