---
title: "literary_erotica_for_you"
---

# Literary Erotica for You

She shuts the door behind them, gingerly, careful not to awake the
little kid and the woman sleeping in the other room. The lamp on the
night stand throws up a yellow glow into the space, punctuated by the
shadows on the wall. The air conditioner hums a low guttural tune and
the cold draft of air tickles the soft down on her neck. She feels
goosebumps forming on her arm and feels her nipples engorging with blood
and erect against the fabric of her shirt. He asks her whether he should
turn off the lamp, and she says yes. In the dark of the room, a hazy
yellow---or was it a cold white?---light permeates the window blinds. He
takes out his wallet, towel, and keys from his pockets and places them
neatly on the nightstand, pushing aside the white tube which says '10%
Urea Cream---Chemist at Play.' She has already lied down on the bed, her
love handles flattening against the soft cotton of the bedspread. He
looks at her voluptuous figure and senses a movement in his loins. He
wants to possess her, pin her against the bed, hold her hands, and lock
his lips against her cunt, inhaling the sweet smell of piss, sweat, and
cum. He kisses her, tracing the outline of her lips with his tongue,
before tasting her in his mouth. He caresses her neck and bites her ear,
and she responds by closing her eyes and releasing a soft moan into his
ears. She wants him to fuck her, wants to feel him enter her cunt, and
thinking about this makes her pants wet. A damp heat pools between her
legs. He is in no hurry as he removes her bra and frees her breasts. He
feels her erect nipples under his fingers, and bites them playfully. She
feels an electrical impulse travelling down her leg as she arches her
back in pleasure. He slips an arm under her back, pulls her closer, and
suckles on her breast. He goes up to slip the shirt off her shoulder and
spots the tiger stripe marks on her right shoulder and plants a wet
kiss. He now hurries and pulls the pants off her, feeling her shapely
calves and slightly cracked heels under his skin. He can smell her cunt,
the light scent of urine and the day's sweat which had dried on her
groin, and this makes him hard. He lifts her legs up and rests them on
his shoulder as he slides down and place his lips on her pink, wet, and
sweet-smelling cunt. As he licks her clit, she forgets place and time
and allows a moan to escape her mouth. She locks his head between her
thighs and he feels his temple getting squeezed as he sucks on her clit
and plays with her nipple. She guides his arm down her hole and wants
him to enter her. He spits on her cunt and inserts two fingers into her
warmth, feels the smooth and rough insides. She responds by grinding
down on his fingers. She engulfs him. He watches her squirm on the bed,
the soft street glow lighting up her face in ecstasy. As he works his
fingers in and out of her, he feels a warmth spreading in his body, a
feeling that he wants to be with her, spend the night cuddling with her,
wake up to her sleepy face in the morning, run a hot shower with her in
his arms, their soapy bodies rejoicing in the flesh of each other. Now
he feels her tighten her legs around his arm and her pussy squeezes his
fingers and she utters another moan and squirms in the bed. She then
opens her legs wide, and tells him that it is burning down there. He
pulls out his fingers and kisses her cunt, softly. He climbs up to her
and hugs her from behind. The big spoon and the small spoon. His
hardness against her buttocks which he wants to paint with his cum. He
feels satisfied, with her warmth and his warmth fusing together in the
cold room. For a moment, both of them are lost in thought, unaware of
their bodies intertwined in this room in this city which never sleeps.
Two humans who came across each other. Two lives crossing each other.
Two minds thinking about each other. Two bodies touching each other. Two
destinies---although he does not believe in them as much as he wants
to---in an embrace.
