---
title: "one_bad_turn"
---

# one bad turn

The idea seems to be that the doctor gives you three kinds of pills, all
of them in doses that are below their maximum allowed dosage, and keeps
increasing the doses of each, one after the other, when the symptoms
fail to disappear. This is a respectable way of treating diseases, I
suppose. After all, the years spent dissecting bodies and piercing minds
cannot be *that* hollow. The doctor tells me that if the symptoms do not
clear up despite the main pill hitting its ceiling, we would try upping
the other pill. I wonder what would he do when all the degrees of dosing
disappear.

The first symptom is that the world has become loud, bright, and
amplified in all its attributes. The mid-day sun is bright, but so are
the street lamps that tend to be either tame or inutile. The jackhammer
pulverizing concrete on the floor above mine is definitely loud, but so
are conversations that used to be mere background voice. I, in those
moments, can imagine---and most importantly *understand*---a newspaper
headline which says "Student kills three in unexplained attack."

Rest of the symptoms are classic, textbook-style stuff. They can be
wooed easily.

In other news, I got paid to speak to a group of students/researchers
about memory studies. Half of the money went away as Doctor's fee on the
same day, and the other half was spent on grapes, juice, and
strawberries. If this is not the foreshadowing of my possible future, I
don't know what it is.

I began reading *Ways and Means* by Daniel Lefferts, and began, yet
again, working on Proust. This time I will read Proust a few pages at a
time, slowly and regularly. Reading with a pencil makes it slow anyways.
Reading Proust and Vargos Llosa is a treat in itself. How does one write
about shitting or sleeping in over tens of pages? You could say that
Stanley Fish also does this in *Is there a text in this class*, but
Proust and Llosa are much more supple and sexy.

*For a long time, I used to go to bed early.* The next time you come
across that sentence, look ahead for long and lugubrious paragraphs that
could swallow you whole. Speaking of sentences, I have been looking for
a particular translation of *Anna Karenina* and found an exorbitantly
priced copy. So is the case with good translations of Proust. Pricey and
unavailable. Something something third-world.

Song of the week is *Unna Vida* from *Virumandi* sung by Shreya Ghoshal
and Kamal Hassan. Also, *Kathivanoor Veerane* from *Kaliyattam*. Ballads
are not really rare in Malayalam, but this hits closer to home both
geographically and life-world*ly*.

I read *Udakappola* and watched *Thoovanathumbikal* in a day. I keep
thinking about how characters were collapsed and sub-plots omitted and
some amplified. It felt like watching myself lift-and-paste stuff from
old assignments into new ones. I am pretty sure Padmarajan must have
felt the same. Reading *Ulkkadal* has been a chore, so I've kept it
aside for now.

I went to watch Dune: Part Two for the vast landscapes and was slightly
disappointed because I had to watch close-ups of people grimacing,
kissing, raging, believing etc. The ambient music was top-notch,
however, I did not notice the music affecting me till the credits
started rolling. After watching slice-of-life and mumblecore films from
MUBI, Dune is a fresh breath of epic narratives and epic scales.
Watching *Premalu* did two things to me: I noticed, for the first time,
how Love is almost always predicated on guilt---at least in the Malayali
psyche, including mine; the movie made me feel, again, for the first
time in life, how much it hurts when friends leave. I also got excited
when the electric scooter for which my brother developed the
brand-identity showed up unexpectedly in the movie.
