---
title: "onion sellers and domesticity"
---

# Onion Sellers and Domesticity

Two scenes from Mumbai. April 2025.

Onion Sellers

In the tiny but densely populated market near this working-class
residential neighbourhood in Mumbai, one finds neon coloured combs,
mirrors which have just a piece of cardboard backing their ground glass
plates, nail-clippers, rather suspicious-looking slender ear cleaners,
and vegetables, and fish, and meat. And fried chicken looking more red
than red itself. And dried fish. And onions.

Some people have a traveling onion-truck. In small pick-up trucks, two
men in their mid-forties, or late-thirties sell onions in five-kilo
plastic bags. â‚¹100 for a five-kilo bag.

Then there are onion sellers who have their own shacks which are loosely
tied plastic sheets making up a tent resembling a shoe box turned on its
side. Contrary to what the tents might suggest, these sellers have heaps
of onions spread out in front of their shacks. One would imagine that
they sell hundreds of kilos of onions every day. They are the small dons
of the onion kingdom.

The market has a minimum of fifty of these onion sellers. In the middle
of these onion sellers is a woman, who must be about fifty or sixty
years old, who has found a spot between two shacks. In front of her,
spread on a sack so that they wouldn't touch the ground, is a tiny heap
of onions, maybe five or six kilos at the most. Sitting alone by the
road, in between a nonexistent gap between two equally shabby tents,
this woman. I do not remember her face. In Mumbai it is easy to forget
faces. You look out of the auto rickshaw and the faces keep whizzing
past the door. But I remember how I felt when I saw that woman. It is an
image that will haunt me for a while.

---

Domesticity

I believe that becoming the head of a family (in a usual patriarchal
husband/father oriented setup) will interpellate the individual (the one
interpellation I can see in real life) into the role of a
caregiver/lover/provider. And this transformation is so strong that one
cannot see past it. It rules over all other domains of one's life to the
extent that an alternative is unthinkable. The most terrifying thing
about this transformation is that it makes one enjoy it. It makes one
feel proud, happy, and it makes one feel successful in their life. What
sort of trap is worse than a trap which disguises itself as paradise?

Imagine that you have a kid born out of your conjugal setup. You will
feel better when you teach the kid a new word, a new skill. You will
feel the sense of achievement when you can buy her a toy. You will feel
like a warrior when you hold her when she falls asleep next to you. You
want her to drink the tea before it gets cold. You want her to eat
things she likes. You want to be able to provide for her. You want to
protect her. And this gives you a sense of satisfaction and achievement.
This is a trap.

Imagine that you are sitting in the bedroom alongside your wife. You
want to take care of her, make love to her, defend your bed against
other men, drive her to her workplace, get her a necklace, take her to
the movies. You want to make sure she gets the best doctor to treat her
when she falls ill. You want to massage the knots out of her back. You
want to make sure that the umbrella covers her better than it covers you
when it rains. You do not want to have to use the umbrella when it rains
because you want her to travel in a car when it rains. You want her to
not take the bus. You want to be able to take her to good restaurants.
And all this gives you is the sense of achievement. Another false sense
of achievement.

This is the trap of the family. A trap which makes you feel better. It
is not a gilded cage, but a cage which makes you want to stay. You
actively resist being displaced from the relations that make up the
family.
