---
title: "reasons_why"
---

# Reasons Why

What follows are the reasons why you should be always looking for these:

1\. You should listen to everybody.

2\. This is because everybody is a small world unto themselves.

3\. Everyone hears things their way, everyone reads things in their own
way. All of these words are smatterings of rain in their heads;
individual rains, individual heads.

4\. So what they are going to be saying are about things which only they
know. Only they sense etc.

5\. So, listen to them. Listen to what they say.

6\. Things such as schizophrenia are real, because they is no fake
sensation, as Cioran says. Only real sensations.

7\. Reason 1 means you should not be ashamed of interacting with the
opposite sex, the-other-attractinve-genders, other color, other
anything. Which means you should not be ashamed of interacting with the
Other.

8\. Be unashamed of yourself because you are a full world by yourself.
You are as 'selfs' as other selfs are. You are not beneath anything.

9\. Beauty and good are related. Thus, beauty and achievement are
related. That is why Fascism gave us good poets, because then Good was
Beautiful (Fascism was good, hence beautiful, hence gave us more poets
(poets are the one who deals with beauty).

10\. This is why you should act as yourself; so that others can see you;
and you can see them. This is of course on the assumption that others
are not going to decieve you.

11\. Language is like a smattering of rain. That is to say, one sort of
ladder (a particular fragment) of points of thought. So, if you do not
capture them as they arise, you will probably never get them back. This
is why a notebook is essential.

12\. So the basic idea is my own idea: (ANANTHAJITH SAYS): what we all
have are points of idea. When we connect them, there forms a pattern,
which is very very unique (out of the infinity-ish thoughts we have,
this is unique). So, a collection of all of these means full Knowledge.
So, try to pick as many of them as you can. That is the end meaning of
life: To collect as many patterns as you can, so that you feel you have
worked their brain well.

13\. This is also what Aristotle says: You need to examine your life
always. The thing is that he was actually saying "You should always
exercise your brain" which got weirdly translated to "Unexamined life is
not worth living". So basically he was just saying you've been given(by
someone)/had a brain, keep using it.

14\. Facism is fascinating because the beauty of being in control is
fascinating. Because in fascism, you think of squares, circles,
well-defined curves (although they are made to appear random, such as
dissenting poets), and other perfect patterns. Which is beautiful,
right? Forms are beautiful. Being able to know the borders of the
patterns you see is beautiful. So Fascism is like "this one guy had OCD,
but he became President and hence OCD became official." Jews became the
error-bits and thus they were erased.

15\. And this is interesting because what we all see are patterns
(female and male, me and you, Jake and Dave and Rick and Peter and all
that). The 'person' is the name is we give to this collection of
properties which makes the patterns. What happens when we die is that
one of these collections cease existing. Like ripples in a puddle
(ripples are just collection of properties; i.e., a specific pattern, a
specific person).

16\. This is why the metaphor of the world as a puddle in which it
rains. (Puddle of properties which in specific patterns, which are what
we call individuals)

17\. Each rain drop (pattern) is a collection of properties which only
exists in one instance. Those rain drops are collections of
possibilities (worlds).

18\. It's raindrop in puddle all way down.

19\. Raindrops in puddle all the way down.

20\. Hence rain is god. In many religions.

21\. Which is why we should not stop anyone from what they are doing.
Each is a world transforming every second into a possibility.

22\. Such possibilities are all we have.

23\. To be rapist to be scientist. i.e., in general terms be a
possibility (this I call Possibility).

24\. To be in the world, second by second, we are all ever changing
possibilities. Which means each next second we are something else i.e.,
possibilities are time bound i.e., they change. The world (because it is
made of possibilities) is always thus changing.

25\. Only certain types of people (because each person is a possibility
(collection of properties)) can connect with certain other types of
people. i.e., we are all people who have certain uniqueness (we are a
unique pattern of properties) and this is called our orientation. B is a
particular model which can connect with x, y, z models (like pieces of
lego, these have particular shapes). Our facets (faces/sides) must
connect with each other's.

26\. And like cells of an organism, they communicate through these
facets certain properties only. Which is how we become a wife (exchanges
monogamy with another cell), a rapist (a particular kind of cell
(possibility) which is in connection with another particular kind of
cell (possibility) which is, in this case, a raped person, a gay man in
western Asia, an x, which is, in general terms, a Possibility.

27\. Because the entire universe and the self are parallels (both are
made of each other, recursively. which means that each recursed version
is a parallel (a meaning is thus a parallel/recursion)), this means that
both the world and the self (which is to say the entire
universe=world+self (this is again a recursion)) can be thought of as
exact same kinds of things.

28\. To state 27 in simpler terms, Universe (which recurses (or just
means) into world+self), and the self, are both similar in structure
(each is a particular collection of points connected to other points).

29\. This the general nature of everything: points connected to other
points, whose configurations change every moment (which is to say that
change is just a series of Possibility (time multiplied by individual
possibilities).

30\. There are groups which say pedophilia is normal. This is a
logically defendable position if you think BDSM is normal (i.e., you
think anything can be considered normal). This is a troubling
possibility (this possibility is in other words what you would call a
person (Jake or Ananthajith or whatever at a particular instant, which
in turn implies that we are all changing people)).

31\. 30 and 31 are not connected. Just two separate thoughts.

32\. Don't be afraid to be a possibility. This is what a seducer looks
like. A person not frightened in becoming a possibility. A person
comfortable being what they are.

33\. Aside: Such common sayings ("Just be yourself") is basically true
because someone great thought of it and then it spread. There is an
element of truth (is truth itself because truth is homogenous...

and so on and so forth.
