---
title: "sapamoksham_redemptionsalvationliberation_poem_kalpatta_narayanan_master"
---

# Sāpamōksham (redemption/salvation/liberation); (Prose)Poem, Kalpatta Narayanan Master

Translated with no permission and considerable leeway. *Mathrubhumi*,
2024 May 19-25.

Perhaps because he was a man, God was despairing and depressed by the
end of the process of Creation. He was dissatisfied more by that which
he had created with utmost care and earnesty. That which frenzied him
till then had stopped, suddenly. You can see that in \*vellila\* plants
([Mussaenda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mussaenda_frondosa)). When
beauty was withdrawn, the petals became leaves. The same had happened in
the case of woman.

God was overjoyed when he took, in his hand, the substance for creating
woman. A vast emptiness had been bothering God for a while. It was time
to be liberated from that. He got enamored in her as he formed her. You
could see that in his use of the substance he used to make her, his hand
had faltered at many places. He created in her the softest he had ever
created. Do you know how many times he re-wrote her neck and the valley
of her forehead and the nape of her neck and the lobes of her ears and
her bosom and her pelvis and her navel and her thighs to get them this
way? He could not control himself after a while. But the woman was
punished for his weakness. Isn't that how it is? Guilt turned into
hatred. God cursed her and sent her to Earth.

What was the curse, you ask? You will never be sure about whom to love.
You will behave with enmity towards the one who loves you. You will
scorn him. You will feel that you should break his fingers which caress
you. But you will kiss those legs which trample you. You will follow,
like a dog wagging its tail, those who do not bend to your will. You
will never be at peace because of your obsession for what you cannot
get. Nothing will taste good to you until you taste the inaccessible
fruit. The one you love will not love you back. And you will not love
back the one who loves you.

In every life she had since then, she had prayed her heart out to God to
lift the curse. And to tell you the truth, she did receive some
clemency.

All that said, she has not been completely redeemed. Neither did she get
an answer to the question 'How have I wronged?' Will there be a God if
everything had an answer? All she could see was the shadow of God
walking away.

But at times she is overcome with joy at having destroyed God's peace.

Out of the two women who heard this story, one exploded with anger: "A
man made up this story. He does not know that there is no woman, only
women." The other one supported her, "True, there is no one story for
all of us." She continued with her voice down, "But, at times, rarely at
times, I have felt that there are no women, only woman; like how we feel
there are no men, only man."
