---
title: "self_and_universe_yet_another_parallelism"
---

# Self and Universe: Yet Another Parallelism

This came to me as I was reading the introduction to Handke's
*Homecoming*. See, the guy writing the introduction says that as we read
Handke, we feel that "the self has seemed at once more sure footed than
before and more null."

The concept is that it is only when we obliterate/delete the self that
the self completely becomes it"self". Total selfhood is achieved only
when total selflessness is achieved. This might sound completely bonkers
when you think about it rationally. Just remove the 'reason' bit for a
while. Think again. Consider.

When self is at its complete, is when there is no self.

The parallel is from the physical universe.

The black hole is that thing which deletes everything and gives nothing,
right? Even light. Even something as non-tangible yet real as light.
Light is, to be frank, just a concept when we think about it. We really
can't see light itself. We cannot know it by any means than pure faith
in it. Right? You see only the effect of light (colors and vision) than
light itself. I believe in light like I believe in a supernatural being.
You believe it because it explains stuff (just like light explains the
world, God explains the universe---yet another reason God is equated
with light in many religions). So the blackhole is something that ends
everything to the extent that you have to believe that everything that
has ended *is* in the blackhole---it is completely full yet it is
nothing.

See the parallel? Both in the smallest blob of existence (self) and the
largest scales of existence (the universe), things do not make any
rational sense. You just have to be okay with believing that the glass
is full only when it is empty.
