---
title: "sentences"
---

# Sentences

This is a Modafinil-fuelled, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance
inspired, and linguistic satiation encouraged rant.

The problem with sentences (language itself) is that you cannot say one
thing without not saying a lot of other things. I found myself stuck
trying to write my second chapter a few moments ago, because the
sentences which I wrote down were indirectly writing down sentences
which I did not type. Like a firework display gone wrong, each of the
sentences as I laid them down sparked a lot of sentences which I did not
type up, and the page suddenly went out of control as sentences filled
it which I could see but were not visible. How do you fish the one
sentence out of a thousand, the one vada out of a pan of them, the one
set of lips to kiss? You could perhaps say that there is no one vada, no
one set of lips. But for all practical purposes, I am limited to one
sentence in the space I can fit in one sentence. And this makes me want
to pull out my hair.

The modafinil is making me confident and I'm afraid of this, because
confidence is the first step towards mania. It is not impossible that I
might do something that I might not have done otherwise. Not that these
are of much consequence, but if it turns me into doing one of those
things, then it is trouble.

I haven't eaten anything since the morning. Yet I am not hungry. I am
hungry in a metaphorical way, however. I am in want of a body, a few
paragraphs, a violent act, an act of filth and dirt. I might want to
kick someone into a ditch, or push someone out of the sidewalk. My jaws
are tight and the tips of my teeth want to sink into someone's flesh. I
might want to strangle someone. Imagine you two sitting as if you are
going to spoon the other person and maybe masturbate them. You reach
around to their crotch and excite them whatever way they want...but as
soon as they are tired, you bring the two ends of rope around their
neck, pull those ends together, cross them, and tug on them tight until
you can feel something fall back on itself, the windpipe crushed, a few
vertebrae broken, their skin against your skin. Very exciting.
