---
title: "splitting_headache_brutal_honesty_as_cure"
---

# Splitting Headache, Brutal Honesty as Cure

My head aches. It moves up from my forehead, to the top of my head, and
radiating towards the ears, as if the headband of my earphones are
channels through which the pain travels. I assume that a cappuccino with
an extra shot of espresso would help, and that is why I am sitting here
at the Cafe on a seat I would otherwise not have chosen. In the midst of
this pain and general inconvenience at being in society and having to
see people and hear their voices, I place my faith in writing, believing
earnestly that the cure to my headache and my malaise and apathy will be
found in opening my blog and writing something down.

The pain isn't helping, and the noise is unbearable; I will write about
one thing, just one subject, one theme, one memory. And I will write it
down as it is, dirty and painful.

I will write about how my brain feels 'stuck' and how it bothers me.

A few days ago, I was walking down the road that leads to the rest of
the campus from my hostel. This road is special in that it is always
grey. Not like how we feel *grey* sometimes, but grey in colour. The
vista is heartbreaking and depressing, to see this road covered in dust
and fine soil dropped by the many trucks which carry material for
construction, pods of trees which have been embedded to the asphalt by
the weight of these trucks, the occasional heap of cow dung. Walking on
this road, it seems to me, would reduce your lifespan by a few minutes
every hundred meters. I was walking down the road, brooding over
something, when I was convinced that my brain was in fact slowing down,
and at times, getting stuck.

TBC
