---
title: "stone_and_flesh"
---

# Stone and Flesh

While I know little of myself, there is one aspect of me which I assume
I know quite well: that I believe in cause and effect and in the laws of
physics. What this means to me in everyday life is that if I see someone
standing near me, who is supposed to be say, a thousand kilometers away,
the first emotion I would feel is disbelief. I believe that if a problem
can be taken apart and explained, then it is possible to solve it.

Mostly.

These days, I have been noticing that a lot of things around me are not
easily explainable. For instance, after a long day, I was leaving the
lab, and saw two students decked out for some event. They were wearing
opulent, silky clothes which accentuated their slender figures. Hair
combed neat, lips painted, faces blushing. I felt a little sick. I
wanted to get out of the place immediately. Which I did.

I shared this with a friend and he told me that this was an experience
familiar to him. I asked him to explain to me the mechanism behind this
feeling. Why did I feel a need to leave upon sighting the students? He
told me that these experiences were the way they were precisely because
they can't be explained.

So I tried asking my therapist. She explained it a little bit by
referring to the mental associations we make with attributes such as
opulence. She rounded off the explanation telling me 'That is how it
is.'

This is just one example. After a couple of similar experiences, my
fundamental and subtle belief in causality has started eroding, bit by
bit. I still cling on to cause and effect, but there are these points
were I cannot explain why events happen and things take specific forms.
