---
title: "talking_about_myself"
---

# Talking About Myself

I do not know when it happened to me. I take antidepressants and the
occasional anti-anxiety medicines, sure; but if they were to meddle with
my mind in as serious a manner as it is happening these days, I would
have to be on them for years, right? It had been barely an year now,
and...I feel, in a manner of feeling physically, like how you feel that
your blood pressure is dropping and you are going to fall down, that I
am a changed person. I am someone else.

## 

I deal with people differently these days. It is almost as if something
had happened inside, something broke, something fused, something changed
irreversibly. I wish I knew what happened, except that I know that I
cannot know, no matter how I try. And I also know that I am not going to
try. It is just that these days, people appear to me as islands, all
different in their topography, geography, and history. History, surely.
History. Weighing down all of us into a torrent of events and people and
a man sitting by the road, sipping tea from a sticky, grimey glass,
trying to cool the smoke in his mouth before sucking it into his lungs.

Yesterday night, I tried to trick myself into dreaming. I was on my bed,
laying down, lights switched off and the fan running and I was hungry. I
tried sleeping, and as I was slipping into sleep, I thought---half
consciously, half unconsciously---of the Zomato drivers, of the Amazon
delivery people, and I thought of the road leading from one point of
delivery to another, and the workers melting the tar, and the workers
sweeping the road. I thought that we are all accelerating towards
death---not the certain, literal, biological death but the kind of death
that people joke about, that it is not the air conditioner but you who
are dead and cold inside. That death. Decay. Decay because the zomato
drivers ride for us, that the workers work for us, that the amazon
delivery agents come all the way to my building by the road which the
workers made, for us.

Today I went for lunch with my supervisor and another professor and a
friend. I couldn't shake off the feeling that I was not sitting there
with the people, really. It was as though I was there, but also not
there. That I liked listening to these people, but not sure of it, that
things are making me anxious but not really.

I am writing this, sitting in a room, surrounded by people, many others,
many people, and I feel that I might be taking a clonazepam tablet
shortly. It is not the dizziness of freedom, surely. For when is
freedom? I think I will just leave, now.
