---
title: "the_three-legged_dog"
---

# The Three-Legged Dog

These days I've taken to staying inside during the day; it is April in
Mumbai and the sun beats down mercilessly on everything. I venture
outside only after the sun sets. With the draft sent to my supervisor, I
decided that I would stay away from it for a few days and spend time
reading other stuff. I read Osamu Dazai's *No Longer Human* and tried
getting back to watching movies on Mubi; Dazai reminded me of Mishima
and sunk me into melancholy for a few days, and I could not bring myself
to watching movies.

After sunset, around 7pm, I get out of bed and head to the showers. I
run water through my hair and let it permeate the coarse strands and
smoothen it with conditioner. It takes forever to dry, so I forego the
headphones while cycling to the lab. This is the first time I see quite
a number of people in the day; people walking and cycling and talking
and running and petting. I while away time in the lab, reading and
writing and deleting and thinking. On my way back, in the stretch that
goes downhill, I see a dog with a black and white coat running uphill on
three legs; one of the forelegs is missing. I have been seeing it for
the past two days.

This is a sight that takes the joy out of the downhill stretch. That is
not really true. It does not take the joy out of the downhill stretch.
It makes me slow down, and I promise myself that I will forget this by
the time I reach my hostel. It is not a sight to lose sleep over---at
least whatever those seven hours of tossing and turning are called. But
on the day of my therapy, the dog invariably comes up. I tell my
therapist that it is a saddening sight. I lack enough words to truly
tell her what it makes me feel, so I just tell her that it is a
saddening sight.

I must stop and think. Think really hard. What does the three-legged dog
mean to me? Fundamentally, it is an odd sight---pun not intended. A dog
with three legs stands out like a crooked chair, like a bottle without a
lid. Perhaps it is the slight variation in its gait that gives this
oddness away. But then you realise that the gait isn't really odd. It is
the missing leg, the empty space that has cut in that makes it an odd
sight. Despite the missing leg, the dog trots away much like any other
dog. Functionally, it is still very much a dog.

Maybe, you think, it reminds you of the invalidity of your existence.
Like the dog, the city has chopped off your feelers. It does not affect
your executive functions that people stare at you as an oddity. It only
give away your oddness when you try to move the stumps of the feelers
and realise that they are missing. Despite the missing feelers, you have
learned to mask the absence well. Maybe what you feel when you see the
three-legged dog is not pity or sadness, but subliminal fraternity.
Perhaps that is why you slow down; you are seeing yourself after a long
time.
