---
title: "wanting"
---

# Wanting the Burgundy Roll-top

A video advertising a burgundy roll-top bag appeared on my phone today
morning when I was lying on the bed, too tired to get up. While it could
have been an ad sponsored by the company which made the bag, I realised
that it was a video they had uploaded on their account. This must have
made me a little more generous with the way I watched the video,
noticing the various pockets and their functions the advertisement
showed me.

It was only later in the afternoon, having my coffee and reading
Nicholson Baker's /Box of Matches/, that I realised that it was not just
appreciation that I experienced regarding the bag, but a degree of
wanting which had largely disappeared from my life.

I remember the times that I wanted things: toys, food, people. Looking
back on my childhood I am reassured that this kind of wanting is
different from other kinds of wanting. I find myself supplicating before
the bag, the spiritual dimension of me shrinking before its magnanimity,
its creases sharp and well-defined against the corpulent rolls of my
midriff, and the even tone of its burgundy fabric made me feel ashamed
of the scarring I tried to hide with expensive skin creams.

These are matters of spirit. There are matters of utility too. The
burgundy bag is not as functional as the deep blue bag that I carry
these days. There are fewer pockets on the burgundy bag and I am not
sure whether it has a toughened bottom piece that can withstand being
put on gravel, rough concrete, and the occasional bare earth. I believe,
perhaps so that the woman who sits next to my table is impressed and the
square-jawed lithe younger men are made envious, that the roll-top, the
G-hook, and the burgundy colour of the bag makes me inhabit another kind
of world, where I am desired and worshipped.
